Hey, I'm Nathan.
I'm a principal data analyst in
a trust and safety
organization at Google.
At Google, I'm a member
of an organization
called VetNet which is
an employee resource group for
veterans and Googlers who
want to support veterans.
One of my favorite ways that
we give back every year
is through an annual
resume review workshop.
In the resume workshop,
either virtually or in person,
we have veterans or
veteran spouses coming to
the office or we
meet via video chat,
and we go through the
resume and really focus
on impactful things they've
done and how to make
their accomplishments jump off
the page and show really
how awesome they are.
Veterans, in
particular, can have
some unique challenges
when it comes to
translating their
military experience to
a really effective
civilian resume.
The first is removing
military-specific jargon.
The second is being willing
to claim correct credit for
the accomplishments that
you did because a lot of times
veterans are going to
always say that it was
completely the team that did
it and then third
is coming up with
a really good measurement
of the impact
of the activities that they're
showcasing in the resume.
Just as service members
have to communicate really
clearly, work well as a
team and really exercise
really good attention to detail.
That's also the case
when you're working
as a data analyst.
You can't know everything,
so it's important to
be able to work with
cross-functional stakeholders
in a very collaborative
setting and
the best analysis in the world is
worthless if you can't
clearly communicate
recommendations and
influence the stakeholders
to adopt those and
of course if you
overlook some important
details that could also derail
your analysis and
your credibility
in the eyes of
those stakeholders.
Attention to detail
is critical.
It's important to
get some training.
Of course, the Data Analyst
Certificate is a great set of
training but also
just other courses
either on tools that
seem interesting to you.
It's important to think about
what sorts of problems
you find the most
interesting, and
then find data for
those problems and do some
analysis on your own.
That's a really high-impact
way of being able to get
some great experience on your
own that you can then talk
about during interviews and
even informal chats with
people in your network.
Why veterans should consider
a career in data analysis
is that they already
have a strong foundation
of being able to be
really persistent while
also remaining really
humble and that's super
important as a data analyst
because if your ego
is out of control,
you're going to have
big blind spots
that lead you to make
mistakes in your analysis.
One of the best pieces of
advice that I still think
of is that it's
better to get speeding
tickets than parking tickets.
Especially means as
a data analyst is
sometimes you have to jump into
situations that you're
not totally comfortable,
and you need to
learn your way out of it and
collaborate your way out of it.